On-behalf-of token and service account authorization tokens doc (#5123)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security/access-control/authentication-tokens.md

### 3.0 API endpoint
There will be an new API endpoint `POST /_plugins/_security/api/generateonbehalfoftoken` on the security plugin that will allow users to create a short-lived self-issued on-behalf-of token to perform certain actions on behalf of a user.

To access this API endpoint, the request body should contain three API parameters:

* description: This allows the use to articulate the purpose for requesting this token, providing clarity and transparency.
* service (optional): This parameter is directed to the audience claim of the on-behalf-of token. It offers users the opportunity to designate the target service for which they intend to use the token. Although this is an optional parameter, if not specified, the default value is set to "self-issued".
* durationSeconds (optional): This parameter allows users to customize the token's expiration time according to its anticipated usage. However, the maximum duration is capped at 600 seconds to maintain security. If not specified, the default duration is set to 300 seconds.
* Here is an example of requesting an on-behalf-of token with lifespan of 3 mins as user '“admin” for testing purpose:

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```json
````

> curl -XPOST https://localhost:9200/_plugins/_security/api/generateonbehalfoftoken -u 'admin:admin' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' --data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
POST /_plugins/_security/api/generateonbehalfoftoken
```

> '{ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ 
```

   "description":"Testing",
   "service":"Testing Service",
   "durationSeconds":"180"

> }'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```

```

### 4.0 Additional Authorization Restriction ([related discussion](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/2891))

While the conversation about the usage of on-behalf-of (OBO) tokens continues, it is critical to manage certain edge cases. Even though an OBO token can act as a valid Bearer authorization header for any API access, there needs to be certain limitations. For instance, it should be forbidden to use an OBO token to access the API endpoint to issue another OBO token. Similarly, using an OBO token to access the reset password API in order to modify a user's authentication information should be disallowed. These preventive measures are necessary to uphold the integrity and security of the system.

## Service Accounts

> 

Reviewer: Could you insert an intro sentence here? Per our style guide, we cannot have one heading immediately following the other.

> ### 1.0 Introduction of Service Accounts

Reviewer: Is Service Accounts correctly capitalized?

Author: I believe we use it as a proper noun throughout so I made both terms capital. If you prefer we can switch to standard noun and use sentence case.

> Service Accounts are a new authC/authZ path where extensions can execute requests without assuming the role(s) of the active user. Service Accounts are a special type of principal associated with each extension and have a set of permissions. The permissions assigned to a Service Account grant the associated extension the authorization to execute any of the mapped operations without needing to assume the roles of the active user or stash the user’s role(s) in the ephemeral user context. **Currently, Service Account only permit operations on system indices associated with the mapped extension.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service Accounts are a new authC/authZ path where extensions can execute requests without assuming the role(s) of the active user. Service Accounts are a special type of principal associated with each extension and have a set of permissions. The permissions assigned to a Service Account grant the associated extension the authorization to execute any of the mapped operations without needing to assume the roles of the active user or stash the user’s role(s) in the ephemeral user context. 

Currently, Service Account only permit operations on system indices associated with the mapped extension.
{: .important}
```

* Impersonation compromises referential integrity, meaning it is difficult for auditors to identify which requests were executed by an extension or by an operator. A system with referential integrity maintains a transactional record in its audit log. The record provides a clear history of actions taken by various subjects at specific times. When extensions impersonate users for both requests they make on behalf of the operator, and requests they execute on their own, the audit log lacks referential integrity.
* Impersonation also makes it impossible to restrict an extension’s permissions beyond those of the user it impersonates. When an extension assumes the roles of the active subject, it copies all of the roles. This includes even those permissions which are uneccessary for executing its intended actions. This practice not only deviates from the principal of least-privileges, but also increases the threat surface area. With each additional permission granted to the Plugin User, the potential impact a misconfigured or malicious extension may have grows.

### 3.0 Service Account Benefit

> Service Accounts address the issues listed in 2.0 by defining a separate state which autonomously executing extensions run in. Service Accounts maintain referential integrity by introducing a distinct state which extensions run in when executing requests on their own behalf. Audit logging can then record when an extension executes on its own—it will make authC/authZ calls against the Service Account—or whether it is executing an action on behalf of the operator and therefore making use of the OnBehalfOf tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service Accounts address the issues listed in 2.0 by defining a separate state in which autonomously executing extensions run. Service Accounts maintain referential integrity by introducing a distinct state in which extensions run when executing requests on their own behalf. Audit logging can then record when an extension executes on its own—it will make authC/authZ calls against the Service Account—or whether it is executing an action on behalf of the operator and therefore making use of the on-behalf-of tokens.
```

> Similarly, Service Accounts address threat exposure concerns by separating the roles an extension assumes from those of the operator or a generic hard coded user (such as those in the `internal_users.yml` file). Service Accounts will not assume the roles of the operator, but instead have their own privileges listed in the Service Account. The roles associated with a Service Account can therefore, be as a restrictive as possible in alignment with the principle of least-privileges. In order to avoid providing extensions overly-permissive service accounts, extension authors should have a strong understanding of what types of operations their extensions hopes to execute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, Service Accounts address threat exposure concerns by separating the roles an extension assumes from those of the operator or a generic hard-coded user (such as those in the `internal_users.yml` file). Service Accounts will not assume the roles of the operator, but instead have their own privileges listed in the Service Account. The roles associated with a Service Account can therefore, be as a restrictive as possible in alignment with the principle of least-privileges. In order to avoid providing extensions overly-permissive service accounts, extension authors should have a strong understanding of what types of operations their extensions hopes to execute.
```

### 4.0 API Endpoint

> As suggested by the name, the boolean flag `service` denotes whether a given internal user account is Service Account. If an account is not a Service Account, then any attempts to generate an associated auth token for the account will fail. Similarly, the `enabled` field dictates when a Service Account can be used by an extensions to perform operations. If a Service Account is not `enabled` attempts to fetch its auth token will be blocked and it will be unable to execute requests on its own behalf using a previously issued auth token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As suggested by the name, the boolean flag `service` denotes whether a given internal user account is Service Account. If an account is not a Service Account, then any attempts to generate an associated auth token for the account will fail. Similarly, the `enabled` field dictates when a Service Account can be used by an extensions to perform operations. If a Service Account is not `enabled`, attempts to fetch its auth token will be blocked and the Service Account will be unable to execute requests on its own behalf using a previously issued auth token.
```

> * Here is an example of create a service account with ALL PERMISSIONS for your service/extension:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example of create a service account with ALL PERMISSIONS for your service or extension:
```

```

> curl -XPUT "[https://localhost:9200/_plugins/_security/api/internalusers/admin-extension https://localhost:9200/_plugins/_security/api/internalusers/hello-world" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d' 

Reviewer: Can this be run in dev tools? I'm not sure about the format. Seems that the opening square bracket is not closed.

Author: Yeah square bracket should not be there. Let me remove.

{
 "opendistro_security_roles": ["all_access"],
 "backend_roles": [],
 "attributes": {
  "enabled": "true",
  "service": "true"
 }
}' -u "admin:admin" --insecure
```

## Handling On-Behalf-Of and Service Account Requests

> While both on-behalf-of token handling and Service Accounts can be viewed as independent features, the most significant benefits are realized when coupled. Specifically, OpenSearch exposes a client which is used to connect to the OpenSearch cluster and provides Plugins the ability to execute requests. With the introduction of on-behalf-of tokens and Service Accounts the client is now able to be used to handle requests which will make use of both of these new features. Now, when the client executes a request which requires an extension to use an on-behalf-of token, the first step of handling the request is the forwarding of the request to the Security Plugin. In the Security Plugin, the request is authenticated and authorized against the active user. If the active user is permitted, the request returns to OpenSearch’s core code base where a request to create an on-behalf-of for the target extension using the active user’s identity is created. This request to generate the on-behalf-of token is then handled by the `IdentityPlugin` implementation. In the standard scenario this is the Security Plugin, so the request is returned to the Security Plugin’s implementation of the `TokenManager` interface which generates a new on-behalf-of token for the request. After generating the token, the Security Plugin forwards the request with the on-behalf-of token to the extension. At that point, the extension is then able to call OpenSearch’s REST methods with the token. The permissions associated with the token will then be evaluated for the authorization of the request. If the token conveys the permissions required for the operation, the action will be performed and the response will be sent back to the extension. After processing OpenSearch’s response, the extension will forward its own handling of the response to the client. If instead, the on-behalf-of token does not entail the permissions required for execution of the target action, the a forbidden response is returned to the extension.

Reviewer: Is IdentityPlugin an interface? If so, style it in italics. If it's a class, style it in normal font.

---
layout: default
title: Authorization tokens
parent: Access control
nav_order: 125
redirect_from:
 - /security/access-control/authorization-tokens/
 - /security-plugin/access-control/authorization-tokens/
---

## On-Behalf-Of authentication

> The Security plugin allows you to configure two types of authentication tokens. The first of these is On-Behalf-Of (OBO) tokens. 

Author: ```suggestion
The Security plugin allows you to configure two types of authentication tokens: On-Behalf-Of (OBO) tokens and Service Account tokens. 
```

The following is an example of requesting an on-behalf-of token with lifespan of 3 mins as user '“admin” for testing purpose:
```json
POST /_plugins/_security/api/generateonbehalfoftoken
{ 
   "description":"Testing",
   "service":"Testing Service",
   "durationSeconds":"180"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### 4.0 Additional Authorization Restriction ([related discussion](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/2891))

While the conversation about the usage of on-behalf-of (OBO) tokens continues, it is critical to manage certain edge cases. Even though an OBO token can act as a valid Bearer authorization header for any API access, there needs to be certain limitations. For instance, it should be forbidden to use an OBO token to access the API endpoint to issue another OBO token. Similarly, using an OBO token to access the reset password API in order to modify a user's authentication information should be disallowed. These preventive measures are necessary to uphold the integrity and security of the system.

## Service Accounts

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Service Accounts tokens are the second form of authentication token supported by the Security plugin. 
```

### 4.0 API Endpoint
As suggested by the name, the boolean flag `service` denotes whether a given internal user account is Service Account. If an account is not a Service Account, then any attempts to generate an associated auth token for the account will fail. Similarly, the `enabled` field dictates when a Service Account can be used by an extensions to perform operations. If a Service Account is not `enabled`, attempts to fetch its auth token will be blocked and the Service Account will be unable to execute requests on its own behalf using a previously issued auth token.
The following is an example of create a service account with ALL PERMISSIONS for your service or extension:
```json

> 

Author: ```suggestion

PUT /_plugins/_security/api/internalusers/admin_service
```

{
 "opendistro_security_roles": ["all_access"],
 "backend_roles": [],
 "attributes": {
  "enabled": "true",
  "service": "true"
 }

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
```

>  }

Author: ```suggestion
 }
 
 ```

```

The following is an example of requesting an on-behalf-of token with lifespan of 3 mins as user '“admin” for testing purpose:
```json
POST /_plugins/_security/api/generateonbehalfoftoken
{ 
   "description":"Testing",
   "service":"Testing Service",
   "durationSeconds":"180"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### 4.0 Additional Authorization Restriction ([related discussion](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/2891))

While the conversation about the usage of on-behalf-of (OBO) tokens continues, it is critical to manage certain edge cases. Even though an OBO token can act as a valid Bearer authorization header for any API access, there needs to be certain limitations. For instance, it should be forbidden to use an OBO token to access the API endpoint to issue another OBO token. Similarly, using an OBO token to access the reset password API in order to modify a user's authentication information should be disallowed. These preventive measures are necessary to uphold the integrity and security of the system.

## Service Accounts

> Service Accounts tokens are the second form of authentication token supported by the Security plugin. 

Author: ```suggestion
Service Accounts tokens are the second form of authentication token supported by the Security plugin. 

```

### 4.0 API Endpoint
As suggested by the name, the boolean flag `service` denotes whether a given internal user account is Service Account. If an account is not a Service Account, then any attempts to generate an associated auth token for the account will fail. Similarly, the `enabled` field dictates when a Service Account can be used by an extensions to perform operations. If a Service Account is not `enabled`, attempts to fetch its auth token will be blocked and the Service Account will be unable to execute requests on its own behalf using a previously issued auth token.
The following is an example of create a service account with ALL PERMISSIONS for your service or extension:
```json

PUT /_plugins/_security/api/internalusers/admin_service
{
 "opendistro_security_roles": ["all_access"],
 "backend_roles": [],
 "attributes": {
  "enabled": "true",
  "service": "true"
 }

>  

Author: ```suggestion
 
 ```

```

## Handling On-Behalf-Of and Service Account Requests

> While both on-behalf-of token handling and Service Accounts can be viewed as independent features, the most significant benefits are realized when coupled. Specifically, OpenSearch exposes a client which is used to connect to the OpenSearch cluster and provides Plugins the ability to execute requests. With the introduction of on-behalf-of tokens and Service Accounts the client is now able to be used to handle requests which will make use of both of these new features. Now, when the client executes a request which requires an extension to use an on-behalf-of token, the first step of handling the request is the forwarding of the request to the Security Plugin. In the Security Plugin, the request is authenticated and authorized against the active user. If the active user is permitted, the request returns to OpenSearch’s core code base where a request to create an on-behalf-of for the target extension using the active user’s identity is created. This request to generate the on-behalf-of token is then handled by the `IdentityPlugin` implementation. In the standard scenario this is the Security Plugin, so the request is returned to the Security Plugin’s implementation of the `TokenManager` interface which generates a new on-behalf-of token for the request. After generating the token, the Security Plugin forwards the request with the on-behalf-of token to the extension. At that point, the extension is then able to call OpenSearch’s REST methods with the token. The permissions associated with the token will then be evaluated for the authorization of the request. If the token conveys the permissions required for the operation, the action will be performed and the response will be sent back to the extension. After processing OpenSearch’s response, the extension will forward its own handling of the response to the client. If instead, the on-behalf-of token does not entail the permissions required for execution of the target action, the a forbidden response is returned to the extension.

Author: ```suggestion
While both on-behalf-of token handling and Service Accounts can be viewed as independent features, the most significant benefits are realized when coupled. Specifically, OpenSearch exposes a client which is used to connect to the OpenSearch cluster and provides Plugins the ability to execute requests. With the introduction of on-behalf-of tokens and Service Accounts the client is now able to be used to handle requests which will make use of both of these new features. Now, when the client executes a request which requires an extension to use an on-behalf-of token, the first step of handling the request is the forwarding of the request to the Security Plugin. In the Security Plugin, the request is authenticated and authorized against the active user. If the active user is permitted, the request returns to OpenSearch’s core code base where a request to create an on-behalf-of for the target extension using the active user’s identity is created. This request to generate the on-behalf-of token is then handled by the _`IdentityPlugin`_ implementation. In the standard scenario this is the Security Plugin, so the request is returned to the Security Plugin’s implementation of the `TokenManager` interface which generates a new on-behalf-of token for the request. After generating the token, the Security Plugin forwards the request with the on-behalf-of token to the extension. At that point, the extension is then able to call OpenSearch’s REST methods with the token. The permissions associated with the token will then be evaluated for the authorization of the request. If the token conveys the permissions required for the operation, the action will be performed and the response will be sent back to the extension. After processing OpenSearch’s response, the extension will forward its own handling of the response to the client. If instead, the on-behalf-of token does not entail the permissions required for execution of the target action, the a forbidden response is returned to the extension.
```

### 4.0 API Endpoint
As suggested by the name, the boolean flag `service` denotes whether a given internal user account is Service Account. If an account is not a Service Account, then any attempts to generate an associated auth token for the account will fail. Similarly, the `enabled` field dictates when a Service Account can be used by an extensions to perform operations. If a Service Account is not `enabled`, attempts to fetch its auth token will be blocked and the Service Account will be unable to execute requests on its own behalf using a previously issued auth token.
The following is an example of create a service account with ALL PERMISSIONS for your service or extension:
```json

{
 "opendistro_security_roles": ["all_access"],
 "backend_roles": [],
 "attributes": {
  "enabled": "true",
  "service": "true"
 }

> }' -u "admin:admin" --insecure

Author: ```suggestion
```

> curl -XPUT "[https://localhost:9200/_plugins/_security/api/internalusers/admin-extension https://localhost:9200/_plugins/_security/api/internalusers/hello-world" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d' 

Author: ```suggestion
```json
PUT /_plugins/_security/api/internalusers/admin-extension 

{
    "roles": ["all_access"]
} 

```
```

### 4.0 API Endpoint
As suggested by the name, the boolean flag `service` denotes whether a given internal user account is Service Account. If an account is not a Service Account, then any attempts to generate an associated auth token for the account will fail. Similarly, the `enabled` field dictates when a Service Account can be used by an extensions to perform operations. If a Service Account is not `enabled`, attempts to fetch its auth token will be blocked and the Service Account will be unable to execute requests on its own behalf using a previously issued auth token.
The following is an example of create a service account with ALL PERMISSIONS for your service or extension:
```json

> PUT /_plugins/_security/api/internalusers/admin-extension 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> {

Author: ```suggestion
```

>     "roles": ["all_access"]

Author: ```suggestion
```

> } 

Author: ```suggestion
```

### 4.0 API Endpoint
As suggested by the name, the boolean flag `service` denotes whether a given internal user account is Service Account. If an account is not a Service Account, then any attempts to generate an associated auth token for the account will fail. Similarly, the `enabled` field dictates when a Service Account can be used by an extensions to perform operations. If a Service Account is not `enabled`, attempts to fetch its auth token will be blocked and the Service Account will be unable to execute requests on its own behalf using a previously issued auth token.
The following is an example of create a service account with ALL PERMISSIONS for your service or extension:
```json

> ```json

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Extensions acting on their own behalf also make use of the client exposed by OpenSearch. When an extension is first initialized in OpenSearch, the `IdentityPlugin` is triggered to create a new Service Account for it and provide the associated Service Account token. In the default configuration, the Security Plugin is the `IdentityPlugin` and handles these processes. After OpenSearch receives the Service Account token, it forwards that token to the associated extension. After the extension has received its token, requests by the client to make use of the Service Account associated with the extension are operable. In these scenarios, the extension receives the requests from the client, and then forwards the request along with the Service Account token to OpenSearch. OpenSearch further transfers the packages to the Security Plugin where the token is parsed and the request is treated as a traditional request using Basic Authentication in the `InternalAuthenticationBackend`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Extensions acting on their own behalf also use the client that is exposed by OpenSearch. When an extension is first initialized in OpenSearch, the `IdentityPlugin` is triggered to create a new Service Accounts for it and to provide the associated Service Accounts token. In the default configuration, the Security plugin is the `IdentityPlugin` and handles these processes. 
After OpenSearch receives the Service Accounts token, it forwards that token to the associated extension. After the extension has received its token, requests by the client to make use of the Service Accounts associated with the extension are operable. In these scenarios, the extension receives the requests from the client and then forwards the request along with the Service Accounts token to OpenSearch. OpenSearch further transfers the packages to the Security plugin, where the token is parsed and the request is treated as a traditional request using "Basic Authentication" in the `InternalAuthenticationBackend`.
```

> In both on-behalf-of and Service Account token request flows, the `IdentityPlugin`'s `TokenManager` interface is used by the `IdentityPlugin` to handle the distribution and processing of the tokens. This interface is implemented by the Security Plugin as an `IdentityPlugin` and contains logic for issuing a token which is either an on-behalf-of or Service Account token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In both OBO and Service Accounts token request flows, the `TokenManager` interface for the `IdentityPlugin` is used by the `IdentityPlugin` to handle the tokens' distribution and processing. This interface is implemented by the Security plugin as an `IdentityPlugin` and contains logic for issuing a token that is either an OBO or Service Accounts token.
```

### API Endpoint

As suggested by the name, the Boolean flag `service` denotes whether a given internal user account is a Service Accounts. If an account is not a Service Accounts, then any attempts to generate an associated authorization token for the account will fail. Similarly, the `enabled` field determines when a Service Accounts can be used by an extension to perform operations. If a Service Accounts is not `enabled`, attempts to fetch its authorization token will be blocked and the Service Accounts will be unable to run requests on its own behalf using a previously issued auth token.
The following is an example of creating a Service Accounts with `ALL PERMISSIONS` for your service or extension.
```json
PUT /_plugins/_security/api/internalusers/admin_service
{
 "opendistro_security_roles": ["all_access"],
 "backend_roles": [],
 "attributes": {
  "enabled": "true",
  "service": "true"
 }
 ```

> {% include copy-curl.html %}

Author: ```suggestion

{% include copy-curl.html %}
```

---
layout: default
title: Authorization tokens
parent: Access control
nav_order: 125
redirect_from:
 - /security/access-control/authorization-tokens/
 - /security-plugin/access-control/authorization-tokens/
---

> Authorization tokens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Authorization tokens
```

The Security plugin allows you to configure two types of authentication tokens: On-Behalf-Of (OBO) tokens and Service Account tokens.

## On-Behalf-Of authentication

The following sections describe the use, configuration, structure, and endpoint for OBO tokens.

### Usage

On-Behalf-Of tokens are a special form of JSON Web Token (JWT) used for managing authentication requests between a user's client and an extension. These tokens operate "just-in-time," meaning that a token is issued immediately before it is required for authentication. A token will have a configurable window of validity (with a maximum duration of five minutes), after which it expires and cannot be used.

> An extension can use an OBO token to interact with an OpenSearch cluster, using the same privileges as the user it represents. This is why these tokens are called "on-behalf-of." Since these tokens are not restricted, they enable services to function as though they are the original user until the token expires. This implies that the feature's applicability extends beyond just extension-related uses cases, allowing for a wider range of uses.

Author: ```suggestion
An extension can use an OBO token to interact with an OpenSearch cluster, using the same privileges as the user it represents. This is why these tokens are called "on-behalf-of." Since these tokens are not restricted, they enable services to function as though they are the original user until the token expires. This implies that the feature's applicability extends beyond only extension-related uses cases, allowing for a wider range of uses.
```

### API endpoint

You can access the `POST /_plugins/_security/api/generateonbehalfoftoken` API endpoint on the Security plugin in order to create a short-lived, self-issued OBO token to perform certain actions on the user's behalf.

To access this API endpoint, the request body should contain three API parameters:

* `description`: This parameter allows the user to articulate the purpose for requesting this token, providing clarity and transparency.
* `service` (optional): This parameter is directed to the audience claim of the OBO token. It offers users the opportunity to designate the target service for which they intend to use the token. Although this is an optional parameter, if not specified, the default value is set to `self-issued`.
* `durationSeconds` (optional): This parameter allows users to customize the token's expiration time according to its anticipated usage. The maximum duration is capped at 600 seconds to maintain security. If not specified, the default duration is set to 300 seconds.
The following is an example of requesting an OBO token with a lifespan of 3 mins for the user “admin” for testing purposes:

> ```json

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```json
```

POST /_plugins/_security/api/generateonbehalfoftoken
{ 
   "description":"Testing",
   "service":"Testing Service",
   "durationSeconds":"180"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ### Additional authorization restriction ([related discussion](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/2891))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Additional authorization restriction 
```

While the conversation about the usage of OBO tokens continues, it is critical to manage certain edge cases. Even though an OBO token can act as a valid Bearer authorization header for any API access, certain limitations are needed. For instance, using an OBO token to access the API endpoint to issue another OBO token should be forbidden. Similarly, using an OBO token to access the reset password API in order to modify a user's authentication information should be disallowed. These preventive measures are necessary to uphold the system's integrity and security.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For more information, see the [related discussion](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/2891).

```
